Adding Tips&tricks section for Java, logging tip (#111)
SAP/cloud-sdk: docs/java/tips-and-tricks/logging.md

---
id: change-log-level
title: Change log level
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_label: Increase log level

> description: Change log level for your Cloud SDK application for efficient debuggins

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Change log levels for your Cloud SDK application for efficient debugging
```

keywords:
- sap
- cloud
- sdk
- cloud native
- cloud sdk
- sap cloud sdk
image:
---

## When debugging locally ##

> To quickly change `log level` while debugging your Cloud SDK application locally add this argument to you Java compiler:

Reviewer: Isn't it more the mvn run command instead of the compiler?
```suggestion
To quickly change `log levels` while debugging your Cloud SDK application locally add this argument to your `mvn` run command:
```

Reviewer: Also, I'm not sure whether this is actually true, as we (if I remember correctly) only use the slf4j simpleLogger for testing, not for the actual runtime.

```makefile

> -Dorg.slf4j.simpleLogger.log.org.apache.http.wire=debug

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-Dorg.slf4j.simpleLogger.log.package.to.change.log.level.for=debug
```

```

## After deploying to Cloud Foundry ##

For applications deployed on [SAP CF](https://developers.sap.com/tutorials/cp-cf-fundamentals.html) you have to
configure individual log levels for specific packages of your application and third-party dependencies, e.g. _SAP Cloud

> SDK_ or _SAP Service SDK_ or _Apache HTTP components_. Here is how you do it for different Java Frameworks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SDK_ or _SAP Cloud Platform SDK for Service Development_ or _Apache HTTP components_. Here is how you do it for different Java Frameworks.
```

### **TomEE** based application ###

> - Edit the `manifest.yml` to include the following `env` entry for environment variable:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Edit the `manifest.yml` to include the following `env` entry for the `SET_LOGGING_LEVEL` environment variable:
```

```makefile
SET_LOGGING_LEVEL: '{ROOT: INFO, com.sap.cloud.sdk: INFO, org.apache.http.wire: DEBUG}'
```

> You can customize it to the `logging level` to reflect you debugging needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can customize the `logging level` to reflect you debugging needs.
```

## **Spring Boot** based application ##

:::info
- We assume the `logback` framework is used
:::
- Edit or create a file: `application/src/main/resources/logback-spring.xml`
```xml
    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
    <configuration>
        <springProfile name="!cloud">
            <include resource="org/springframework/boot/logging/logback/base.xml"/>
            <root level="INFO"/>
            <logger name="org.springframework.web" level="INFO"/>
        </springProfile>

        <springProfile name="cloud">
            <appender name="STDOUT-JSON" class="ch.qos.logback.core.ConsoleAppender">
                <encoder class="com.sap.hcp.cf.logback.encoder.JsonEncoder"/>
            </appender>
            <logger name="org.springframework.web" level="INFO"/>
            <logger name="com.sap.cloud.sdk" level="INFO"/>
            <logger name="org.apache.http.wire" level="DEBUG"/>
            <root level="INFO">
                <appender-ref ref="STDOUT-JSON"/>
            </root>
        </springProfile>
    </configuration>
```

> You can customize it to the `logging level` to reflect you debugging needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can customize the `logging level` to reflect you debugging needs.
```

:::caution  Pay attention to the different profile settings.

> Make sure the `cloud` profile is active for deployed applications. Edit the `manifest.yml` to include the following `env` entry for environment variable:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure the `cloud` profile is active for deployed applications. Edit the `manifest.yml` to include the following `env` entry for the `SPRING_PROFILES_ACTIVE` environment variable:
```
